Add Goodwe integration documentation (#20000)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/goodwe.markdown

---
title: GoodWe
description: Instructions on how to connect your GoodWe Inverter to Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Sensor
  - Energy
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_release: 2022.2
ha_codeowners:
  - "@mletenay"
ha_domain: goodwe
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
---

The GoodWe integration will poll a [GoodWe](http://www.goodwe.com/) solar inverter over the local network and present its runtime values as sensors in Home Assistant.

It works with GoodWe ET, EH, BT, BH, ES, EM, DT, MS, D-NS, XS and BP families of inverters. Different inverter families/models expose different sets of sensors, the newer models have usually broader support.

<div class='note'>

> If you can't communicate with the inverter despite your model is listed above, it is possible you have old ARM firmware version. You should ask manufacturer support to upgrade your ARM firmware (not just inverter firmware) to be able to communicate with the inverter via UDP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you can't communicate with the inverter despite your model is listed above, it is possible you have an old ARM firmware version. You should ask manufacturer support to upgrade your ARM firmware (not just inverter firmware) to be able to communicate with the inverter via UDP.
```

> It may work on other inverter families as well, as long as they listen on UDP port 8899 and respond to one of supported communication protocols. In general, if you can communicate with the inverter via official mobile application (PvMaster, SolarGo), it is very likely the integration will work too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It may work on other inverter families as well, as long as they listen on UDP port 8899 and respond to one of the supported communication protocols. In general, if you can communicate with the inverter via an official mobile application (PvMaster, SolarGo), it is very likely the integration will work too.
```

For the other inverter families, if such sensors are not directly available by the inverter, they can be calculated from existing sensors. [Template Sensor](/integrations/template/) can be used to separate buy and sell power values and [Riemann Sum](/integrations/integration/) can be used to convert these instant power (W) values into cumulative energy values (Wh), which then can be used within the energy dashboard.

## Inverter polling frequency

The integration will poll the inverter for new values every 10 seconds. If you wish to receive fresh inverter data less (or more) frequently, you can disable the automatic refresh in the integration's system options (Enable polling for updates) and create your own automation with your desired polling frequency.

```yaml
- alias: "Goodwe inverter data polling"
  trigger:
    - platform: time_pattern
      hours: "*"
      minutes: "*"
      seconds: "/30"
  action:
    - service: homeassistant.update_entity
      target:
        entity_id: sensor.ppv
```

<div class='note'>

> It has been observed in some rare situations that frequent polling conflicts with update to Goodwe SEMS cloud portal and does not receive any updates anymore. Reducing polling frequence to 30 seconds or 1 minute seems to help in such case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It has been observed in some rare situations that frequent polling conflicts with updates to the Goodwe SEMS cloud portal and do not receive any updates anymore. Reducing polling frequency to 30 seconds or 1 minute seems to help in such cases.
```

---
title: GoodWe
description: Instructions on how to connect your GoodWe Inverter to Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Sensor
  - Energy
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_config_flow: true

> ha_release: 2022.01

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2022.2
```
